# Workshop Session: Exploring EPR - Codebase Overview

## Outline

1. Get the Code:

Initiate the workshop by guiding participants on how to clone and get the
codebase of the Event Provenance Registry (EPR) project. Provide step-by-step
instructions for utilizing version control systems like Git to access the latest
EPR codebase.

2. Overview of the Project Structure:

Once participants have the code, offer an in-depth exploration of the project's
structure. Walk through the key directories and files, explaining their roles
and contributions to the overall architecture. Discuss any coding conventions or
standards followed in the project to ensure a consistent understanding.

3. Understanding the Role of Each Component (Server, CLI, Client):

Break down the components of the EPR project, highlighting the distinct roles
and responsibilities of the server, command-line interface (CLI), and client.
Discuss the server's function in handling events, the CLI's role in user
interaction, and the client's purpose in integrating with external systems.

## Workshop Format

The session will incorporate live demonstrations, allowing participants to
follow along with the exploration of the codebase. Practical exercises will be
integrated, enabling participants to navigate the project structure and identify
key components. Q&A sessions will be interspersed throughout the workshop to
address participant queries and provide clarifications.

## Key Learning Objectives

Acquire the skills to access and clone the EPR project codebase using version
control. Gain a deep understanding of the project's structure, including
directories and files. Familiarize participants with coding conventions and
standards employed in the EPR project. Understand the distinct roles of the
server, CLI, and client components in the EPR architecture.

Note: This workshop session is designed to empower participants with a solid
grasp of the Event Provenance Registry (EPR) codebase. By offering a
comprehensive overview of the project's structure and the unique roles of its
components, participants will be well-prepared to contribute effectively to the
development and enhancement of EPR.
