# Workshop Session: Challenge - Enhancing EPR Functionality

## Outline

1. Introduction to the Challenge:

Set the stage by introducing the workshop challenge, where participants will
have the opportunity to enhance a specific aspect of the Event Provenance
Registry (EPR) project. Provide an overview of the challenge, outlining the
goals and the aspect of EPR functionality to be enhanced.

2. Challenge Objectives:

Clearly communicate the objectives of the challenge, specifying the desired
outcomes and the criteria for successful completion. Emphasize the relevance of
the challenge in addressing real-world scenarios or improving specific
functionalities within EPR.

3. Guidance on EPR Architecture and Codebase:

Offer a brief review of the EPR architecture and codebase related to the
challenge. Provide participants with key insights into the relevant components,
modules, and areas of the codebase that may need modification. Share
documentation and references to assist participants in navigating and
understanding the existing codebase.

4. Hands-On Implementation:

Allow participants dedicated time to actively work on the challenge. Encourage
them to apply their knowledge and creativity to enhance the specified aspect of
EPR functionality. Provide support and answer questions as participants delve
into the coding and development process.

5. Collaboration and Discussion:

Foster collaboration among participants by encouraging discussions on potential
approaches, solutions, and challenges encountered during the implementation.
Facilitate an environment where participants can share ideas and seek feedback
from both peers and facilitators.

6. Assistance and Troubleshooting:

Be available to provide guidance, assistance, and troubleshoot issues that
participants may encounter during the challenge. Address questions, provide
clarifications, and offer insights to ensure participants feel supported
throughout the implementation process.

7. Showcasing Solutions:

Conclude the challenge session by inviting participants to showcase their
solutions, either through live demonstrations or presentations. Encourage
participants to discuss the thought process behind their enhancements and any
lessons learned during the challenge.

8. Debrief and Reflection:

Facilitate a debrief session to reflect on the challenge experience. Discuss key
learnings, insights gained, and potential areas for further exploration within
EPR. Acknowledge and celebrate the achievements of participants, fostering a
sense of accomplishment.

## Workshop Format

The session will incorporate live demonstrations, allowing participants to
follow along with the exploration of the EPR Server and CLI. Practical exercises
will be integrated, enabling participants to navigate the project structure and
identify key components. Q&A sessions will be interspersed throughout the
workshop to address participant queries and provide clarifications.

## Key Learning Objectives

Apply knowledge and skills in a real-world scenario by enhancing EPR
functionality. Collaborate with peers to brainstorm solutions and discuss
implementation approaches. Gain hands-on experience in troubleshooting and
addressing challenges in a coding environment. Showcase and communicate
solutions effectively.

Note: The challenge workshop session aims to provide participants with a
practical and collaborative experience, allowing them to actively contribute to
the improvement of EPR functionality. By engaging in hands-on implementation and
receiving guidance, participants will leave with a deeper understanding of EPR
and enhanced problem-solving skills.
