# Workshop Session: Introduction to Event-Driven Microservice Architectures

## Outline

1. Overview of Microservice Architectures for Scalability and Modularity:

Begin with an exploration of microservice architectures, emphasizing their role
in achieving scalability and modularity in modern software development. Discuss
the principles behind breaking down monolithic applications into smaller,
independent services for enhanced maintainability and deployment flexibility.

2. Define an Event-Driven Asynchronous CI/CD Architecture:

Transition to the concept of Event-Driven CI/CD architectures, highlighting the
advantages of asynchronous communication in Continuous Integration and
Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipelines. Explore how event-driven paradigms enable
services to operate independently, facilitating a more resilient and responsive
CI/CD ecosystem.

3. Explanation of EPR Project and Its Components (Server, CLI, Client):

Introduce the Event Provenance Registry (EPR) project as an exemplary
implementation of an event-driven microservice architecture. Break down the
components of the EPR project, including the server responsible for handling
events, the command-line interface (CLI) for user interaction, and the client
component for external system integration.

4. Introduction to Cloud Events and CDEvents Spec:

Dive into the essential concepts of Cloud Events, emphasizing their role in
providing a standardized format for event messages. Introduce the Continuous
Delivery Events (CDEvents) specification as an extension of Cloud Events,
specifically tailored for capturing and conveying information within CI/CD
processes.

## Workshop Format:

The session will include a mix of presentations, live demonstrations, and
interactive discussions. Practical exercises will be integrated, allowing
participants to apply concepts in a controlled environment. Q&A sessions will be
interspersed to address participant queries and foster engagement.

## Key Learning Objectives:

Gain a foundational understanding of microservice architectures and their
relevance in achieving scalability and modularity. Explore the benefits of
event-driven asynchronous communication in CI/CD pipelines. Familiarize
participants with the Event Provenance Registry (EPR) project and its core
components. Understand the significance of Cloud Events and the Continuous
Delivery Events (CDEvents) specification in standardizing event messages.

Note: This workshop session is designed to provide participants with a solid
understanding of event-driven microservice architectures, leveraging the EPR
project as a practical example. It aims to equip participants with the knowledge
and skills to embrace event-driven paradigms in the context of CI/CD systems.
