# Workshop Session: Setting Up the Environment for EPR Development

## Outline

1. Install Golang and Set Up the Development Environment:

Begin the workshop by guiding participants through the installation of Golang
and the configuration of their development environment. Cover essential tools,
project structure, and best practices to ensure a smooth development experience.

2. Configure Redpanda (Kafka) Instance:

Dive into the setup of Redpanda as a Kafka-compatible message bus for handling
event propagation within the EPR project. Explain the key configurations and
parameters required to establish a functional Redpanda instance.

3. Set Up PostgreSQL Database for Backend Storage:

Walk participants through the process of setting up a PostgreSQL database,
emphasizing the importance of a robust backend storage solution for managing
event data in EPR. Cover database creation, user permissions, and initial
configurations.

4. Deploy PostgreSQL and Redpanda Using Docker-Compose:

Introduce the concept of Docker and guide participants through the creation of a
docker-compose file for deploying both PostgreSQL and Redpanda instances.
Demonstrate how containerization simplifies the deployment and management of
dependencies.

5. Configure Environment Variables for EPR:

Explain the significance of environment variables in configuring EPR and guide
participants through the setup. Cover key variables related to database
connections, Kafka configurations, and any other parameters critical for EPR's
operation.

## Workshop Format:

The session will combine theoretical explanations with hands-on demonstrations
to ensure a practical understanding of each setup step. Participants will be
provided with step-by-step guides and resources for reference during and after
the workshop. A dedicated Q&A segment will be integrated to address participant
queries and troubleshoot common issues.

## Key Learning Objectives:

Gain proficiency in installing and configuring Golang for EPR development.
Understand the setup and configuration of Redpanda as a Kafka message bus.
Master the steps involved in establishing a PostgreSQL database for backend
storage. Learn the principles and advantages of deploying PostgreSQL and
Redpanda using docker-compose. Acquire the skills to configure essential
environment variables for seamless EPR operation.

Note: This workshop session aims to equip participants with the foundational
knowledge and practical skills required to set up a development environment for
working on the Event Provenance Registry (EPR) project. Participants will leave
with a clear understanding of the dependencies, configurations, and best
practices necessary for successful EPR development.
