# Workshop Session: CloudEvents Workshop Session

## Outline

### Hands-On Session on Utilizing EPR for CloudEvents Management

Commence the workshop with a hands-on session, providing participants with
direct experience in utilizing the Event Provenance Registry (EPR) for managing
CloudEvents. Participants will be guided through the setup of their development
environment and introduced to the EPR CLI for seamless interaction.

### Creating CloudEvents for Activity in the Pipeline

Walk participants through the process of creating CloudEvents to capture and
document activities within an event-driven pipeline. Discuss the significance
of defining key CloudEvent attributes, such as `id`, `source`, `type`,
`specversion`, `time`, `subject`, `datacontenttype`, and `data` (payload), as
well as any application-specific extensions.

### Storing CloudEvents in EPR

Guide participants in storing the created CloudEvents within the EPR system.
Explore the storage mechanism, emphasizing the importance of maintaining a
comprehensive record of events for provenance and auditing.

### Retrieving and Querying CloudEvents from the EPR Storage

Demonstrate how to retrieve and query CloudEvents from the EPR storage,
providing participants with the skills to access and analyze historical event
data. Introduce various querying techniques, including filtering by CloudEvent
attributes and retrieving specific event details.

### Grouping CloudEvents in Event Receivers

Explore the concept of Event Receivers and guide participants in grouping
CloudEvents within these receivers. Discuss the benefits of organizing events
into logical groups, facilitating efficient event handling and management.

## Workshop Format

The workshop will be interactive, allowing participants to actively engage in
creating, storing, and retrieving CloudEvents using the EPR CLI. Practical
exercises will be provided to reinforce learning, with real-time feedback and
assistance. Q&A sessions will be included to address participant queries and
explore specific use cases.

## Key Learning Objectives

Gain hands-on experience in using the EPR CLI for managing CloudEvents. Learn
how to create CloudEvents to capture relevant activity within event-driven
systems and pipelines. Acquire skills in storing and retrieving CloudEvents
within the EPR storage. Understand the concept of Event Receivers and the
importance of grouping CloudEvents for effective management.

Note: This workshop session aims to empower participants with practical skills
in creating, storing, and retrieving CloudEvents using the Event Provenance
Registry (EPR). Through hands-on exercises and real-world scenarios,
participants will be well-equipped to leverage EPR for efficient management of
event data in event-driven systems and pipelines.
