# Workshop Session: Building EPR - Building Services and CLI in Golang

## Outline

1. Introduction:

Begin the session by introducing the importance of building the Event Provenance
Registry (EPR) services and Command-Line Interface (CLI) components in Golang.
Emphasize the role of these components in the overall EPR architecture and how
they facilitate event-driven operations.

2. Walkthrough of Building the Server Component:

Conduct a detailed walkthrough of building the server component of EPR in
Golang. Cover key aspects such as setting up the development environment,
defining API endpoints, and incorporating necessary dependencies. Demonstrate
the process of compiling and running the server locally.

3. Using Curl to Interact with EPR:

Explore the practicality of interacting with EPR using curl. Demonstrate how to
make HTTP requests to the EPR server API to create, retrieve, and manage events.
Discuss the importance of understanding server interactions for both development
and testing purposes.

4. Walkthrough of Building the CLI Component:

Transition to building the CLI component of EPR in Golang. Provide a
step-by-step walkthrough of creating commands, handling input parameters, and
interfacing with the EPR server. Illustrate the process of building and
installing the CLI locally.

5. Use the CLI to Interact with EPR:

Engage participants in hands-on exercises using the EPR CLI. Demonstrate how to
execute commands to create events, manage event receivers, and perform other
relevant operations. Encourage participants to experiment with different CLI
options and understand how the CLI facilitates seamless communication with the
EPR server.

6. Q&A and Troubleshooting:

Allocate time for participants to ask questions related to building the server
and CLI components. Address common issues, troubleshoot errors, and provide
insights into best practices. Foster a collaborative environment for
participants to share their experiences and challenges.

7. Integration with EPR Architecture:

Discuss how the server and CLI components fit into the broader EPR architecture.
Emphasize the significance of these components in enabling event-driven
provenance tracking and management.

8. Recap and Next Steps:

Summarize the key takeaways from the session, highlighting the essential
concepts covered in building the EPR server and CLI components. Encourage
participants to explore further, contribute to the project, and leverage the
built components for their specific use cases.

## Workshop Format:

The session will incorporate live demonstrations, allowing participants to
follow along with the exploration of the EPR Server and CLI. Practical exercises
will be integrated, enabling participants to navigate the project structure and
identify key components. Q&A sessions will be interspersed throughout the
workshop to address participant queries and provide clarifications.

## Key Learning Objectives:

Understand the process of building the EPR server component in Golang. Learn how
to interact with the EPR server using curl. Gain practical experience in
building the EPR CLI component and using it to communicate with the server.
Acquire insights into the integration of server and CLI components within the
EPR architecture.

Note: This workshop session aims to provide participants with hands-on
experience in building and interacting with key components of the Event
Provenance Registry using Golang. By focusing on both the server and CLI
aspects, participants will gain a comprehensive understanding of EPR's
development and usage.
