# Workshop Session: CDEvents EPR - Creating, Storing, and Retrieving CDEvents

## Outline

1. Hands-On Session on Utilizing EPR for CDEvents Management:

Commence the workshop with a hands-on session, providing participants with
direct experience in utilizing the Event Provenance Registry (EPR) for managing
Continuous Delivery Events (CDEvents). Participants will be guided through the
setup of their development environment and introduced to the EPR CLI for
seamless interaction.

1. Creating CDEvents for Activity in the Pipeline:

Walk participants through the process of creating CDEvents to capture and
document activities within a Continuous Delivery (CD) pipeline. Discuss the
significance of defining key attributes in CDEvents, such as name, version,
release, platform, package, success, description, and payload.

1. Storing CDEvents in EPR in Events:

Guide participants in storing the created CDEvents within the EPR system.
Explore the storage mechanism, emphasizing the importance of maintaining a
comprehensive record of CD activities for provenance.

1. Retrieving and Querying CDEvents from the EPR Storage:

Demonstrate how to retrieve and query CDEvents from the EPR storage, providing
participants with the skills to access and analyze historical data. Introduce
various querying techniques, including filtering by event attributes and
retrieving specific event details.

1. Grouping CDEvents in Event Receivers:

Explore the concept of Event Receivers and guide participants in grouping
CDEvents within these receivers. Discuss the benefits of organizing events into
logical groups, facilitating efficient event handling and management.

## Workshop Format

The workshop will be interactive, allowing participants to actively engage in
creating, storing, and retrieving CDEvents using the EPR CLI. Practical
exercises will be provided to reinforce learning, with real-time feedback and
assistance. Q&A sessions will be included to address participant queries and
explore specific use cases.

## Key Learning Objectives

Gain hands-on experience in using the EPR CLI for managing CDEvents. Learn how
to create CDEvents to capture relevant activity within a CD pipeline. Acquire
skills in storing and retrieving CDEvents within the EPR storage. Understand the
concept of Event Receivers and the importance of grouping CDEvents for effective
management.

Note: This workshop session aims to empower participants with practical skills
in creating, storing, and retrieving Continuous Delivery Events (CDEvents) using
the Event Provenance Registry (EPR). Through hands-on exercises and real-world
scenarios, participants will be well-equipped to leverage EPR for efficient
management of event data in Continuous Delivery pipelines.
