# Prerequisites for Event-Driven CI/CD Workshop

This workshop is designed for developers and DevOps professionals interested in
learning and implementing Event-Driven CI/CD pipelines. While not mandatory,
having a basic understanding of the following concepts will greatly benefit your
learning experience:

## Programming:

### Basic understanding of Golang:

Familiarity with the Golang programming language syntax and basic constructs
like variables, functions, and packages will be helpful in understanding and
working with the Event Provenance Registry codebase.

### DevOps and Containerization:

Familiarity with Docker and containerization concepts: Understanding how Docker
containers work and their use in building and deploying applications will be
beneficial for the hands-on lab exercises involving containerization of the
Event Provenance Registry services.

### Message Queues:

Knowledge of message bus systems (Kafka): Having a basic understanding of
message bus systems like Kafka, including topics, producers, and consumers, will
help grasp how events are communicated and processed in the Event-Driven CI/CD
architecture.

### Databases:

Basic knowledge of PostgreSQL: Familiarity with the PostgreSQL database system,
including basic commands for creating and manipulating data, will be helpful in
understanding how the Event Provenance Registry stores and retrieves
information.

## Additional Notes:

While prior experience with all these technologies is beneficial, the workshop
will provide introductory sessions and resources to help participants get
familiar with the necessary concepts. Participants are encouraged to come with
an open mind and willingness to learn. The workshop instructors are available to
answer questions and provide support throughout the sessions.

Don't hesitate to reach out if you have any questions or concerns about the
prerequisites. We encourage everyone to participate, regardless of their prior
experience level!
