# Workshop Session: Extended EPR - Creating a Watcher

## Outline

1. What is a Watcher and Why Do I Want One?

Start the session by providing an overview of what a watcher is in the context
of EPR and its significance in event-driven architectures. Discuss real-world
scenarios where watchers play a crucial role in monitoring and responding to
specific events.

1. Creating a Watcher Client Using the Watcher SDK:

Guide participants through the process of creating a watcher client using the
Watcher Software Development Kit (SDK). Explore the key components and
functionalities provided by the SDK for seamless integration with the EPR
project.

1. Create a Task for the Watcher:

Walk participants through the steps of creating a task for the watcher, defining
the specific actions or responses it should undertake based on certain events.
Discuss the flexibility and customization options available when defining
watcher tasks.

1. Trigger the Watcher with an Event:

Illustrate how to trigger the watcher by associating it with a specific event
within the EPR system. Provide practical examples of events that can serve as
triggers and demonstrate the real-time responsiveness of the watcher.

## Workshop Format

The workshop will be interactive, with live coding demonstrations and hands-on
exercises. Participants will actively create a watcher client, define tasks, and
trigger the watcher with simulated events. Q&A sessions will be incorporated to
address participant queries and facilitate a deeper understanding.

## Key Learning Objectives

Understand the role and significance of watchers in event-driven architectures.
Gain practical skills in creating a watcher client using the Watcher SDK. Learn
how to define tasks for watchers to respond to specific events. Acquire hands-on
experience in triggering watchers with simulated events.

Note: This workshop session is designed to extend participants' knowledge of the
Event Provenance Registry (EPR) by introducing the concept of watchers. By
actively creating a watcher client, defining tasks, and triggering responses
based on events, participants will gain valuable insights into enhancing the
functionality and responsiveness of their event-driven systems.
